Previously, we talked about
a few different feature
representations: Tabular,
State Aggregation,
and Coarse Coding.
But we didn't tell you why
coarse coding might be useful.
Today, we'll talk about how
changing the properties of
coarse coding affects
generalization and discrimination.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to describe how
coarse coding parameters affect
generalization and
discrimination,
and how that affects
learning speed and accuracy.
We've talked about how coarse
coding group states into
features of arbitrary
shapes and sizes.
They can be circles, ellipses,
squares or a combination
of different shapes.
Let's look at how
changing the shapes
and sizes of features impacts
generalization and
discrimination and so
affects the speed of learning and
the value functions
we can represent.
Notice that performing
an update to
the weights in one state changes
the value estimate for all states
within the receptive fields
of the active features.
If the union of
the receptive fields
for the active features is large,
the feature representation
generalizes more.
Conversely, if the union is
small, there's
little generalization.
Here, the larger circles on
the right generalize more
broadly distributing the update
across a larger number of states.
Generalization is not
just a scalar quantity however.
Using different shapes
in coarse coding can
change the direction of
generalization as well.
Let's compare the previous
example with circles to
how coarse coding generalizes
with vertically
elongated ellipses.
The receptive fields made from
ellipses are longer
than they are wide.
With these ellipses,
coarse coding
primarily generalizes in
the vertical dimension.
So we've talked about
how the shape and size of
the receptive fields impact
generalization and so
the speed of learning.
But what about the final
accuracy of our estimates?
This is where
discrimination comes in.
Recall that the ability
to distinguish between
values for two different states
is called discrimination.
In coarse coding,
the overlap between
circles dictates the level
of discrimination.
It is impossible to do
perfect discrimination
because we can never
update the value of one state
without impacting
the values of other states.
The colored shapes depict
the discriminative ability of
this particular coarse coding.
We've only highlighted
a few regions
to keep the visualization simple.
Every state within
the same colored shape
will have the exact
same feature vector.
As a result, they must all
have the same approximate value.
The smaller these regions are,
the better we can discriminate.
With many circles, the regions
becomes smaller and
we can discriminate
more finely between the values of
different states or we can
make the circles smaller.
So the size, number,
and shape of
the features all affect
the discriminative ability
of the representation.
Let's look at
a simple example with
a one-dimensional input space.
Consider learning approximation
to a step function.
Let's assume we can sample
the true function values in order
to update our estimates.
This example should
help you better
understand how
representation choices
impact the speed of learning
and the quality of
the final approximation.
For our one-dimensional function,
the receptive fields of
each feature will be
represented as
overlapping intervals.
Let's start with
this relatively short interval.
We'll lay about 50 of
these intervals so that they
overlap randomly over
the domain of our function.
Let's see how our estimate
of the function changes as
we randomly sample
the true values of the function.
We start with
an initial estimate of
zero depicted as a flat-line.
The receptive field for
each feature is quite small.
So even after many samples,
our approximation of the step
function is not that great.
With much more training,
our approximation finally obtains
a close match to
the true function.
But it's not perfect.
This is easy to see by inspecting
the approximation of
the top of the function.
It's not nearly as
flat or smooth.
Let's try this again
with longer intervals.
The receptive field of
each feature is quite large.
This means we can approximate
the rough shape of
the function with
relatively few samples.
As we sample the function more,
our estimate forms a better
and better approximation
of the true function.
The broad generalization of
the longer intervals
made learning faster.
We needed less samples to
get a good approximation.
The large number of
longer intervals
also resulted in
better discrimination,
better final approximation
of the true function.
In this example,
longer intervals ended up
achieving better generalization
and discrimination.
But this may not
always be the case.
Each task may require
different feature
properties and there's
not one general solution.
In this video, we talked
about how the size, number,
and shape of the features
affects generalization and how
the resulting shape intersections
affect the ability
to discriminate.
coarse coding is a very general
type of representation.
Understanding how it generalizes
and discriminates during
learning will help us understand
other representations,
including neural networks.